docs/docs/launch-manual/sections/getting-started/sections/pulsar-basics.md, before:

## Pulsar Basics

Now that Pulsar is installed on your system, let's fire it up, configure it and
get acquainted with the editor.

When you launch Pulsar for the first time, you should get a screen that looks like
this:

![Pulsar's welcome screen](@images/atom/first-launch.png)

This is the Pulsar welcome screen and gives you a pretty good starting point for
how to get started with the editor.

### Terminology

You can find definitions for all the various terms that we use throughout the
manual in our [Glossary](../resources/glossary/).

### Command Palette

In that welcome screen, we are introduced to probably the most important command
in Pulsar, the Command Palette. If you press <kbd class="platform-mac">
Cmd+Shift+P</kbd><kbd class="platform-windows platform-linux">Ctrl+Shift+P
</kbd> while focused in an editor pane, the command palette will pop up.

::: note Note:
Throughout the book, we will use shortcut keybindings like
**_LNX_**: <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+P</kbd> -
**_MAC_**: <kbd>Cmd+Shift+P</kbd> -
**_WIN_**: <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+P</kbd>
to demonstrate how to run a command and tabbed sections where necessary where
instructions for different platforms may differ.

If you have customized your Pulsar keymap, you can always see the keybinding you
have mapped in the Command Palette or the Keybindings tab in the
[Settings View](#settings-and-preferences).
:::

This search-driven menu can do just about any major task that is possible in
Pulsar. Instead of clicking around all the application menus to look for
something, you can press
**_LNX/WIN_**: <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+P</kbd> -
**_MAC_**: <kbd>Cmd+Shift+P</kbd>
and search for
the command.

![Command Palette](@images/atom/command-palette.png "Command Palette")

Not only can you see and quickly search through thousands of possible commands,
but you can also see if there is a keybinding associated with it. This is great
because it means you can guess your way to doing interesting things while also
learning the shortcut key strokes for doing it.

For the rest of the book, we will try to be clear as to the text you can search
for in the Command Palette in addition to the keybinding for different commands.

### Settings and Preferences

Pulsar has a number of settings and preferences you can modify in the Settings
View.

![Settings View](@images/atom/settings.png "Settings View")

This includes things like changing the theme, specifying how to handle wrapping,
font settings, tab size, scroll speed and much more. You can also use this
screen to install new packages and themes, which we'll cover in
[Pulsar Packages](/docs/packages).

To open the Settings View, you can:

- Use the
  **_LNX_**: _Edit > Preferences_ -
  **_MAC_**: _Pulsar > Preferences_ -
  **_WIN_**: _File > Settings_
  menu item in the menu bar
- Search for `settings-view:open` in the [Command Palette](#command-palette)
- Use the
  **_LNX/WIN_**: <kbd>Ctrl+,</kbd> -
  **_MAC_**: <kbd>Cmd+,</kbd>
  keybinding.

#### Changing the Theme

The Settings View also lets you change the themes for Pulsar. Pulsar ships with 4
different UI themes, dark and light variants of the Pulsar and One theme, as well
as 8 different syntax themes. You can modify the active theme by clicking on the
Themes tab in the sidebar of the Settings View, or you can install new themes
by clicking the Install tab.

![Changing the theme from the Settings View](@images/atom/theme.png "Changing the theme from the Settings View")

The UI themes control the style of UI elements like the tabs and the tree view,
while the syntax themes control the syntax highlighting of text you load into
the editor. To change the syntax or UI theme, simply pick something different in
the appropriate dropdown list.

There are also dozens of themes on the [Pulsar Package Repository](https://web.pulsar-edit.dev)
that you can choose from if you want something different. We will cover
customizing a theme in [Style Tweaks](../../using-pulsar/#basic-customization)
and creating your own theme in [Creating a Theme](../../core-hacking/#creating-a-theme).

#### Soft Wrap

You can use the Settings View to specify your whitespace and wrapping
preferences.

![Whitespace and wrapping preferences settings](@images/atom/settings-wrap.png)

Enabling "Soft Tabs" will insert spaces instead of actual tab characters when
you press the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key and the "Tab Length"
setting specifies how many spaces to insert when you do so, or how many spaces
are used to represent a tab if "Soft Tabs" is disabled.

The "Soft Wrap" option will wrap lines that are too long to fit in your current
window. If soft wrapping is disabled, the lines will simply run off the side of
the screen and you will have to scroll the window to see the rest of the
content. If "Soft Wrap At Preferred Line Length" is toggled, the lines will wrap
at 80 characters instead of the end of the screen. You can also change the
default line length to a value other than 80 on this screen.

In [Basic Customization](../../using-pulsar/#basic-customization) we will see how to set
different wrap preferences for different types of files (for example, if you
want to wrap Markdown files but not other files).

### Opening, Modifying, and Saving Files

Now that your editor is looking and acting how you want, let's start opening up
and editing files. This is a text editor after all, right?

#### Opening a File

There are several ways to open a file in Pulsar. You can do it by choosing
_File > Open_ from the menu bar or by pressing

**_LNX/WIN_**: <kbd>Ctrl+O</kbd> -
**_MAC_**: <kbd>Cmd+O</kbd>

to choose a file from the standard dialog.

![Open file by dialog](@images/atom/open-file.png "Open file by dialog")

This is useful for opening a file that is not contained in the project you're
currently in (more on that next), or if you're starting from a new window for
some reason.

Another way to open a file in Pulsar is from the command line using the `pulsar`
command.

<!--TODO: Check if this is actually still going to be used or if will be generic - see https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar/issues/187
<span class="platform-mac">The Pulsar menu bar has a command named
"Install Shell Commands" which installs the `atom` and `apm` commands
[if Pulsar wasn't able to install them itself](/installing-atom/#installing-atom-on-mac)
.</span><span class="platform-windows platform-linux">The `atom` and `apm`
commands are installed automatically as a part of Pulsar's
[installation process](/sections/installing-atom/).</span>
-->

You can run the `pulsar` command with one or more file paths to open up those
files in Pulsar.

```sh
$ pulsar --help
> Pulsar Editor v1.100.0

> Usage: pulsar [options] [path ...]

> One or more paths to files or folders may be specified. If there is an
> existing Pulsar window that contains all of the given folders, the paths
> will be opened in that window. Otherwise, they will be opened in a new
> window.

> ...
```

This is a great tool if you're used to the terminal or you work from the
terminal a lot. Just fire off `pulsar [files]` and you're ready to start editing.
You can even open a file at a certain line (and optionally column) so the cursor
will be positioned exactly where you want. For example, you may search some
keyword in a repository to find the line you want to edit:

```sh
$ git grep -n 'Opening a File$'
getting-started/sections/pulsar-basics.md:130:##### Opening a File
```

and then jump to the beginning of that line by appending a colon and the line
number to the file path:

```sh
$ pulsar getting-started/sections/pulsar-basics.md:130
```

Sometimes you may want the cursor to jump to the exact column position of the
searched keyword. Just append another colon plus the column number:

```sh
$ git grep -n --column 'Windows Explorer'
getting-started/sections/pulsar-basics.md.md:150:722
$ pulsar getting-started/sections/pulsar-basics.md:150:722
```

#### Editing and Saving a File

Editing a file is pretty straightforward. You can click around and scroll with
your mouse and type to change the content. There is no special editing mode or
key commands. If you prefer editors with modes or more complex key commands, you
should take a look at the [Pulsar Package Repository](https://web.pulsar-edit.dev).
There are a lot of packages that emulate popular styles.

:::tabs#getting-started

@tab Linux

To save a file you can choose _File > Save_ from the menu bar or
<kbd>Ctrl+S</kbd> to save the file. If you choose _File > Save As_ or press
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+S</kbd> then you can save the current content in your editor
under a different file name. Finally,you can choose _File > Save All_ to save
all the open files in Pulsar.

@tab macOS

To save a file you can choose _File > Save_ from the menu bar or
<kbd>Cmd+S</kbd> to save the file. If you choose _File > Save As_ or press
<kbd>Cmd+Shift+S</kbd> then you can save the current content in your editor
under a different file name. Finally,you can choose _File > Save All_ or press
<kbd>Alt+Cmd+S</kbd> to save all the open files in Pulsar.

@tab Windows

<kbd>Ctrl+S</kbd> to save the file. If you choose _File > Save As_ or press
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+S</kbd> then you can save the current content in your editor
under a different file name. Finally,you can choose _File > Save All_ to save
all the open files in Pulsar.

:::

### Opening Directories

:::tabs#getting-started

@tab Linux

Pulsar doesn't just work with single files though; you will most likely spend most
of your time working on projects with multiple files. To open a directory,
choose the menu item _File > Open Folder_ and select a directory from the dialog.
You can also add more than one directory to your current Pulsar window, by
choosing _File > Add Project Folder_ from the menu bar or pressing
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+A</kbd>.

@tab macOS

Pulsar doesn't just work with single files though; you will most likely spend most
of your time working on projects with multiple files. To open a directory,
choose the menu item _File > Open_ and select a directory from the dialog. You
can also add more than one directory to your current Pulsar window, by choosing
_File > Add Project Folder_ from the menu bar or pressing <kbd>Cmd+Shift+O</kbd>.

@tab Windows

Pulsar doesn't just work with single files though; you will most likely spend most
of your time working on projects with multiple files. To open a directory,
choose the menu item _File > Open Folder_ and select a directory from the dialog.
You can also add more than one directory to your current Pulsar window, by
choosing _File > Add Project Folder_ from the menu bar or pressing
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+A</kbd>.

:::

You can open any number of directories from the command line by passing their
paths to the `pulsar` command line tool. For example, you could run the command
`pulsar ./hopes ./dreams` to open both the `hopes` and the `dreams` directories
at the same time.

When you open Pulsar with one or more directories, you will automatically get a
Tree View on the side of your window.

![Tree View in an open project](@images/atom/project-view.png "Tree View in an open project")

The Tree View allows you to explore and modify the file and directory structure
of your project. You can open, rename, delete and create new files from this
view.

:::tabs#getting-started

@tab Linux

You can also hide and show it with <kbd>Ctrl+\\</kbd> or the `tree-view: toggle`
command from the Command Palette, and <kbd>Alt+\\</kbd> will focus it.
When the Tree view has focus you can press <kbd>A</kbd>, <kbd>M</kbd>, or
<kbd>Delete</kbd> to add, move or delete files and folders. You can also
right-click on a file or folder in the Tree view to see many of the various
options, including all of these plus showing the file in your native filesystem
or copying the file path to the clipboard.

@tab macOS

You can also hide and show it with <kbd>Cmd+\\</kbd> or the `tree-view: toggle`
command from the Command Palette, and <kbd>Ctrl+0</kbd> will focus it.
When the Tree view has focus you can press <kbd>A</kbd>, <kbd>M</kbd>, or
<kbd>Delete</kbd> to add, move or delete files and folders. You can also
right-click on a file or folder in the Tree view to see many of the various
options, including all of these plus showing the file in Finder or copying the
file path to the clipboard.

@tab Windows

You can also hide and show it with <kbd>Ctrl+\\</kbd> or the `tree-view: toggle`
command from the Command Palette, and <kbd>Alt+\\</kbd> will focus it.
When the Tree view has focus you can press <kbd>A</kbd>, <kbd>M</kbd>, or
<kbd>Delete</kbd> to add, move or delete files and folders. You can also
right-click on a file or folder in the Tree view to see many of the various
options, including all of these plus showing the file in Windows Explorer or
copying the file path to the clipboard.

:::

::: note Note
**Pulsar Packages**

Like many parts of Pulsar, the Tree View is not built directly into the editor,
but is its own standalone package that is shipped with Pulsar by default. Packages
that are bundled with Pulsar are referred to as Core packages. Ones that aren't
bundled with Pulsar are referred to as Community packages.

You can find the source code to the Tree View on GitHub at
https://github.com/pulsar-edit/tree-view.

This is one of the interesting things about Pulsar. Many of its core features are
actually just packages implemented the same way you would implement any other
functionality. This means that if you don't like the Tree View for example, you
could write your own implementation of that functionality and replace it
entirely.
:::

#### Opening a File in a Project

Once you have a project open in Pulsar, you can easily find and open any file
within that project.

:::tabs#getting-started

@tab Linux

If you press <kbd>Ctrl+T</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl+P</kbd>, the Fuzzy Finder will
pop up. This will let you quickly search for any file in your project by typing
parts of the path.

![Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder](@images/atom/finder.png "Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder")

You can also search through only the files currently opened (rather than every
file in your project) with <kbd>Ctrl+B</kbd>. This searches through your
"buffers" or open files. You can also limit this fuzzy search with
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+B</kbd>, which searches only through the files which are new or
have been modified since your last Git commit.

@tab macOS

If you press <kbd>Cmd+T</kbd> or <kbd>Cmd+P</kbd>, the Fuzzy Finder will pop up.
This will let you quickly search for any file in your project by typing
parts of the path.

![Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder](@images/atom/finder.png "Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder")

You can also search through only the files currently opened (rather than every
file in your project) with <kbd>Cmd+B</kbd>. This searches through your
"buffers" or open files. You can also limit this fuzzy search with
<kbd>Cmd+Shift+B</kbd>, which searches only through the files which are new or
have been modified since your last Git commit.

@tab Windows

If you press <kbd>Ctrl+T</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl+P</kbd>, the Fuzzy Finder will
pop up. This will let you quickly search for any file in your project by typing
parts of the path.

![Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder](@images/atom/finder.png "Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder")

You can also search through only the files currently opened (rather than every
file in your project) with <kbd>Ctrl+B</kbd>. This searches through your
"buffers" or open files. You can also limit this fuzzy search with
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+B</kbd>, which searches only through the files which are new or
have been modified since your last Git commit.

:::

The fuzzy finder uses the `core.ignoredNames`, `fuzzy-finder.ignoredNames` and
`core.excludeVCSIgnoredPaths` configuration settings to filter out files and
folders that will not be shown. If you have a project with tons of files you
don't want it to search through, you can add patterns or paths to either of
these config settings or your
[standard `.gitignore` files](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore). We'll learn
more about config settings in
[Global Configuration Settings](../../using-pulsar/#global-configuration-settings),
but for now you can easily set these in the Settings View under Core Settings.

Both `core.ignoredNames` and `fuzzy-finder.ignoredNames` are interpreted as glob
patterns as implemented by the
[minimatch Node module](https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch).

::: tip Tip
**Configuration Setting Notation**

Sometimes you'll see us refer to configuration settings all spelled out like
"Ignored Names in Core Settings". Other times you'll see us use the shorthand
name like `core.ignoredNames`. Both of these refer to the same thing. The
shorthand is the package name, then a dot `.`, followed by the "camel-cased"
name of the setting.

If you have a phrase you want to camel-case, follow these steps:

1. Lowercase the first word
2. Capitalize the first letter in all other words
3. Remove the spaces

So "Ignored Names" becomes "ignoredNames".
:::

Commit message:

add "Install Shell Commands" command note

docs/docs/launch-manual/sections/getting-started/sections/pulsar-basics.md, after:

## Pulsar Basics

Now that Pulsar is installed on your system, let's fire it up, configure it and
get acquainted with the editor.

When you launch Pulsar for the first time, you should get a screen that looks like
this:

![Pulsar's welcome screen](@images/atom/first-launch.png)

This is the Pulsar welcome screen and gives you a pretty good starting point for
how to get started with the editor.

### Terminology

You can find definitions for all the various terms that we use throughout the
manual in our [Glossary](../resources/glossary/).

### Command Palette

In that welcome screen, we are introduced to probably the most important command
in Pulsar, the Command Palette. If you press <kbd class="platform-mac">
Cmd+Shift+P</kbd><kbd class="platform-windows platform-linux">Ctrl+Shift+P
</kbd> while focused in an editor pane, the command palette will pop up.

::: note Note:
Throughout the book, we will use shortcut keybindings like
**_LNX_**: <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+P</kbd> -
**_MAC_**: <kbd>Cmd+Shift+P</kbd> -
**_WIN_**: <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+P</kbd>
to demonstrate how to run a command and tabbed sections where necessary where
instructions for different platforms may differ.

If you have customized your Pulsar keymap, you can always see the keybinding you
have mapped in the Command Palette or the Keybindings tab in the
[Settings View](#settings-and-preferences).
:::

This search-driven menu can do just about any major task that is possible in
Pulsar. Instead of clicking around all the application menus to look for
something, you can press
**_LNX/WIN_**: <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+P</kbd> -
**_MAC_**: <kbd>Cmd+Shift+P</kbd>
and search for
the command.

![Command Palette](@images/atom/command-palette.png "Command Palette")

Not only can you see and quickly search through thousands of possible commands,
but you can also see if there is a keybinding associated with it. This is great
because it means you can guess your way to doing interesting things while also
learning the shortcut key strokes for doing it.

For the rest of the book, we will try to be clear as to the text you can search
for in the Command Palette in addition to the keybinding for different commands.

### Settings and Preferences

Pulsar has a number of settings and preferences you can modify in the Settings
View.

![Settings View](@images/atom/settings.png "Settings View")

This includes things like changing the theme, specifying how to handle wrapping,
font settings, tab size, scroll speed and much more. You can also use this
screen to install new packages and themes, which we'll cover in
[Pulsar Packages](/docs/packages).

To open the Settings View, you can:

- Use the
  **_LNX_**: _Edit > Preferences_ -
  **_MAC_**: _Pulsar > Preferences_ -
  **_WIN_**: _File > Settings_
  menu item in the menu bar
- Search for `settings-view:open` in the [Command Palette](#command-palette)
- Use the
  **_LNX/WIN_**: <kbd>Ctrl+,</kbd> -
  **_MAC_**: <kbd>Cmd+,</kbd>
  keybinding.

#### Changing the Theme

The Settings View also lets you change the themes for Pulsar. Pulsar ships with 4
different UI themes, dark and light variants of the Pulsar and One theme, as well
as 8 different syntax themes. You can modify the active theme by clicking on the
Themes tab in the sidebar of the Settings View, or you can install new themes
by clicking the Install tab.

![Changing the theme from the Settings View](@images/atom/theme.png "Changing the theme from the Settings View")

The UI themes control the style of UI elements like the tabs and the tree view,
while the syntax themes control the syntax highlighting of text you load into
the editor. To change the syntax or UI theme, simply pick something different in
the appropriate dropdown list.

There are also dozens of themes on the [Pulsar Package Repository](https://web.pulsar-edit.dev)
that you can choose from if you want something different. We will cover
customizing a theme in [Style Tweaks](../../using-pulsar/#basic-customization)
and creating your own theme in [Creating a Theme](../../core-hacking/#creating-a-theme).

#### Soft Wrap

You can use the Settings View to specify your whitespace and wrapping
preferences.

![Whitespace and wrapping preferences settings](@images/atom/settings-wrap.png)

Enabling "Soft Tabs" will insert spaces instead of actual tab characters when
you press the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key and the "Tab Length"
setting specifies how many spaces to insert when you do so, or how many spaces
are used to represent a tab if "Soft Tabs" is disabled.

The "Soft Wrap" option will wrap lines that are too long to fit in your current
window. If soft wrapping is disabled, the lines will simply run off the side of
the screen and you will have to scroll the window to see the rest of the
content. If "Soft Wrap At Preferred Line Length" is toggled, the lines will wrap
at 80 characters instead of the end of the screen. You can also change the
default line length to a value other than 80 on this screen.

In [Basic Customization](../../using-pulsar/#basic-customization) we will see how to set
different wrap preferences for different types of files (for example, if you
want to wrap Markdown files but not other files).

### Opening, Modifying, and Saving Files

Now that your editor is looking and acting how you want, let's start opening up
and editing files. This is a text editor after all, right?

#### Opening a File

There are several ways to open a file in Pulsar. You can do it by choosing
_File > Open_ from the menu bar or by pressing

**_LNX/WIN_**: <kbd>Ctrl+O</kbd> -
**_MAC_**: <kbd>Cmd+O</kbd>

to choose a file from the standard dialog.

![Open file by dialog](@images/atom/open-file.png "Open file by dialog")

This is useful for opening a file that is not contained in the project you're
currently in (more on that next), or if you're starting from a new window for
some reason.

Another way to open a file in Pulsar is from the command line using the `pulsar`
command.

::: note Note
**Install Shell Commands on macOS**

The Pulsar Command Palette has a command named "Install Shell Commands" which installs the `pulsar` and `ppm` commands if Pulsar wasn't able to install them itself on a macOS system.

On Linux and Windows commands are installed automatically as a part of Pulsar's installation process.
:::

You can run the `pulsar` command with one or more file paths to open up those
files in Pulsar.

```sh
$ pulsar --help
> Pulsar Editor v1.100.0

> Usage: pulsar [options] [path ...]

> One or more paths to files or folders may be specified. If there is an
> existing Pulsar window that contains all of the given folders, the paths
> will be opened in that window. Otherwise, they will be opened in a new
> window.

> ...
```

This is a great tool if you're used to the terminal or you work from the
terminal a lot. Just fire off `pulsar [files]` and you're ready to start editing.
You can even open a file at a certain line (and optionally column) so the cursor
will be positioned exactly where you want. For example, you may search some
keyword in a repository to find the line you want to edit:

```sh
$ git grep -n 'Opening a File$'
getting-started/sections/pulsar-basics.md:130:##### Opening a File
```

and then jump to the beginning of that line by appending a colon and the line
number to the file path:

```sh
$ pulsar getting-started/sections/pulsar-basics.md:130
```

Sometimes you may want the cursor to jump to the exact column position of the
searched keyword. Just append another colon plus the column number:

```sh
$ git grep -n --column 'Windows Explorer'
getting-started/sections/pulsar-basics.md.md:150:722
$ pulsar getting-started/sections/pulsar-basics.md:150:722
```

#### Editing and Saving a File

Editing a file is pretty straightforward. You can click around and scroll with
your mouse and type to change the content. There is no special editing mode or
key commands. If you prefer editors with modes or more complex key commands, you
should take a look at the [Pulsar Package Repository](https://web.pulsar-edit.dev).
There are a lot of packages that emulate popular styles.

:::tabs#getting-started

@tab Linux

To save a file you can choose _File > Save_ from the menu bar or
<kbd>Ctrl+S</kbd> to save the file. If you choose _File > Save As_ or press
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+S</kbd> then you can save the current content in your editor
under a different file name. Finally,you can choose _File > Save All_ to save
all the open files in Pulsar.

@tab macOS

To save a file you can choose _File > Save_ from the menu bar or
<kbd>Cmd+S</kbd> to save the file. If you choose _File > Save As_ or press
<kbd>Cmd+Shift+S</kbd> then you can save the current content in your editor
under a different file name. Finally,you can choose _File > Save All_ or press
<kbd>Alt+Cmd+S</kbd> to save all the open files in Pulsar.

@tab Windows

<kbd>Ctrl+S</kbd> to save the file. If you choose _File > Save As_ or press
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+S</kbd> then you can save the current content in your editor
under a different file name. Finally,you can choose _File > Save All_ to save
all the open files in Pulsar.

:::

### Opening Directories

:::tabs#getting-started

@tab Linux

Pulsar doesn't just work with single files though; you will most likely spend most
of your time working on projects with multiple files. To open a directory,
choose the menu item _File > Open Folder_ and select a directory from the dialog.
You can also add more than one directory to your current Pulsar window, by
choosing _File > Add Project Folder_ from the menu bar or pressing
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+A</kbd>.

@tab macOS

Pulsar doesn't just work with single files though; you will most likely spend most
of your time working on projects with multiple files. To open a directory,
choose the menu item _File > Open_ and select a directory from the dialog. You
can also add more than one directory to your current Pulsar window, by choosing
_File > Add Project Folder_ from the menu bar or pressing <kbd>Cmd+Shift+O</kbd>.

@tab Windows

Pulsar doesn't just work with single files though; you will most likely spend most
of your time working on projects with multiple files. To open a directory,
choose the menu item _File > Open Folder_ and select a directory from the dialog.
You can also add more than one directory to your current Pulsar window, by
choosing _File > Add Project Folder_ from the menu bar or pressing
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+A</kbd>.

:::

You can open any number of directories from the command line by passing their
paths to the `pulsar` command line tool. For example, you could run the command
`pulsar ./hopes ./dreams` to open both the `hopes` and the `dreams` directories
at the same time.

When you open Pulsar with one or more directories, you will automatically get a
Tree View on the side of your window.

![Tree View in an open project](@images/atom/project-view.png "Tree View in an open project")

The Tree View allows you to explore and modify the file and directory structure
of your project. You can open, rename, delete and create new files from this
view.

:::tabs#getting-started

@tab Linux

You can also hide and show it with <kbd>Ctrl+\\</kbd> or the `tree-view: toggle`
command from the Command Palette, and <kbd>Alt+\\</kbd> will focus it.
When the Tree view has focus you can press <kbd>A</kbd>, <kbd>M</kbd>, or
<kbd>Delete</kbd> to add, move or delete files and folders. You can also
right-click on a file or folder in the Tree view to see many of the various
options, including all of these plus showing the file in your native filesystem
or copying the file path to the clipboard.

@tab macOS

You can also hide and show it with <kbd>Cmd+\\</kbd> or the `tree-view: toggle`
command from the Command Palette, and <kbd>Ctrl+0</kbd> will focus it.
When the Tree view has focus you can press <kbd>A</kbd>, <kbd>M</kbd>, or
<kbd>Delete</kbd> to add, move or delete files and folders. You can also
right-click on a file or folder in the Tree view to see many of the various
options, including all of these plus showing the file in Finder or copying the
file path to the clipboard.

@tab Windows

You can also hide and show it with <kbd>Ctrl+\\</kbd> or the `tree-view: toggle`
command from the Command Palette, and <kbd>Alt+\\</kbd> will focus it.
When the Tree view has focus you can press <kbd>A</kbd>, <kbd>M</kbd>, or
<kbd>Delete</kbd> to add, move or delete files and folders. You can also
right-click on a file or folder in the Tree view to see many of the various
options, including all of these plus showing the file in Windows Explorer or
copying the file path to the clipboard.

:::

::: note Note
**Pulsar Packages**

Like many parts of Pulsar, the Tree View is not built directly into the editor,
but is its own standalone package that is shipped with Pulsar by default. Packages
that are bundled with Pulsar are referred to as Core packages. Ones that aren't
bundled with Pulsar are referred to as Community packages.

You can find the source code to the Tree View on GitHub at
https://github.com/pulsar-edit/tree-view.

This is one of the interesting things about Pulsar. Many of its core features are
actually just packages implemented the same way you would implement any other
functionality. This means that if you don't like the Tree View for example, you
could write your own implementation of that functionality and replace it
entirely.
:::

#### Opening a File in a Project

Once you have a project open in Pulsar, you can easily find and open any file
within that project.

:::tabs#getting-started

@tab Linux

If you press <kbd>Ctrl+T</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl+P</kbd>, the Fuzzy Finder will
pop up. This will let you quickly search for any file in your project by typing
parts of the path.

![Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder](@images/atom/finder.png "Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder")

You can also search through only the files currently opened (rather than every
file in your project) with <kbd>Ctrl+B</kbd>. This searches through your
"buffers" or open files. You can also limit this fuzzy search with
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+B</kbd>, which searches only through the files which are new or
have been modified since your last Git commit.

@tab macOS

If you press <kbd>Cmd+T</kbd> or <kbd>Cmd+P</kbd>, the Fuzzy Finder will pop up.
This will let you quickly search for any file in your project by typing
parts of the path.

![Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder](@images/atom/finder.png "Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder")

You can also search through only the files currently opened (rather than every
file in your project) with <kbd>Cmd+B</kbd>. This searches through your
"buffers" or open files. You can also limit this fuzzy search with
<kbd>Cmd+Shift+B</kbd>, which searches only through the files which are new or
have been modified since your last Git commit.

@tab Windows

If you press <kbd>Ctrl+T</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl+P</kbd>, the Fuzzy Finder will
pop up. This will let you quickly search for any file in your project by typing
parts of the path.

![Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder](@images/atom/finder.png "Opening files with the Fuzzy Finder")

You can also search through only the files currently opened (rather than every
file in your project) with <kbd>Ctrl+B</kbd>. This searches through your
"buffers" or open files. You can also limit this fuzzy search with
<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+B</kbd>, which searches only through the files which are new or
have been modified since your last Git commit.

:::

The fuzzy finder uses the `core.ignoredNames`, `fuzzy-finder.ignoredNames` and
`core.excludeVCSIgnoredPaths` configuration settings to filter out files and
folders that will not be shown. If you have a project with tons of files you
don't want it to search through, you can add patterns or paths to either of
these config settings or your
[standard `.gitignore` files](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore). We'll learn
more about config settings in
[Global Configuration Settings](../../using-pulsar/#global-configuration-settings),
but for now you can easily set these in the Settings View under Core Settings.

Both `core.ignoredNames` and `fuzzy-finder.ignoredNames` are interpreted as glob
patterns as implemented by the
[minimatch Node module](https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch).

::: tip Tip
**Configuration Setting Notation**

Sometimes you'll see us refer to configuration settings all spelled out like
"Ignored Names in Core Settings". Other times you'll see us use the shorthand
name like `core.ignoredNames`. Both of these refer to the same thing. The
shorthand is the package name, then a dot `.`, followed by the "camel-cased"
name of the setting.

If you have a phrase you want to camel-case, follow these steps:

1. Lowercase the first word
2. Capitalize the first letter in all other words
3. Remove the spaces

So "Ignored Names" becomes "ignoredNames".
:::
