---
title: "Pulsar 1.122.0: Frightfully Good!"
author: DeeDeeG
date: 2024-10-20
category:
  - dev
tag:
  - release
---

Pulsar [1.122.0](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar/releases/tag/v1.122.0) is available now!

<!-- more -->

## Pulsar v1.122.0: Frightfully Good.

Greetings! In today's Pulsar release, we have:

- Bug-fixes, refactors and enhancements for Tree-sitter, mostly focused on C and PHP. (shout out to `@savetheclocktower` for these monthly enhancements!)
- Launcher improvements:
  - A fix for the `pulsar` and `ppm` bins being removed without being replaced upon upgrading via the `.rpm` package (shout out to `@am97`, thank you for this fix!)
  - The AppImage now supports more launch flags, such as `--wait`, and `-p --version` also works to print the `ppm` version info (shout out to `@savetheclocktower` for multiple PRs leading up to this, and this PR itself.)
- A bug involving an error in autocomplete-plus is avoided (shout out to `@Digitalone1`)
- SQL state storage implementation for the app is available by opt-in (shout out to `@mauricioszabo`)
- Replacing a deprecated Electron API call `shell.moveItemToTrash` (shout out to `@savetheclocktower` once again!)

Happy coding, and see you amongst the stars.
\- Pulsar team

---

- Added a SQL State Storage alternative to IndexedDB (opt-in, off by default).
- Repackaged the AppImage so it uses our launcher script internally (supports more CLI/launch flags).
- [language-php] Highlighted “null-safe” property access correctly.
- [language-c] Scoped template delimiters properly in C++.
- [language-c] Consolidated common highlighting queries between the C and C++ grammars for more consistency in syntax highlighting.
- Fixed incorrect behavior in certain scenarios for “Fold at Indent Level X” commands.
- Fixed exception when resolving divided folds (e.g., `#ifdefs` in C/C++).
- Avoided "length of null" error in autocomplete-plus for the PHP Tree-sitter grammar.
- Preserved `/usr/bin/pulsar` and `/usr/bin/ppm` on RPM updates.
- [tree-view] Moved to a more modern API for file removal in preparation for an Electron upgrade.

### Pulsar

- Added: Adding a SQL State Storage instead of IndexedDB [@mauricioszabo](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar/pull/917)
- Fixed: Fix AppImage executable [@savetheclocktower](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar/pull/1069)
- Fixed: Tree-sitter rolling fixes, 1.122 edition [@savetheclocktower](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar/pull/1101)
- Fixed: Fix reading error of length property on null [@Digitalone1](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar/pull/1058)
- Fixed: Preserve `/usr/bin/pulsar` and `/usr/bin/ppm` on RPM updates [@am97](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar/pull/1091)
- Updated: [tree-view] Remove deprecated usage of `shell.moveItemToTrash` [@savetheclocktower](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar/pull/1109)
