docs/about.md, before:

---
title: About Us
layout: page
---

## About us

### The team

The team behind Pulsar is a community that came about naturally after the
announcement of [Atom's Sunset](https://github.blog/2022-06-08-sunsetting-atom/)
and decided that they needed to do something about it to keep their favorite
editor alive.

This is a true community-led project to modernize, update and improve the
original Atom project into a contemporary, hackable and fully open editor.

Pulsar is all of us, feel free to contribute, discuss, answer questions and
suggest ideas in any of our [community areas](./community.md).

### The goals <!--See: https://github.com/orgs/pulsar-edit/discussions/50-->

- Community developed, led and focused
  - Pulsar is being made by a community who came together from the stellar
    remnants of Atom. A community that wants to build upon the huge legacy that
    was left and make a uniquely hackable editor.
- To continue and build upon the legacy of the Atom text editor which has been [sunset](https://github.blog/2022-06-08-sunsetting-atom/).
  - This means not only supporting the editor itself but also the package
    repository with its thousands of community contributions.
- Update core technologies to bring the editor up to date.
  - Core technologies such as Node.js, Electron etc., keeping them up to date so
    new features and libraries can be used and added without hacky workarounds.
- Emphasize the elements that make the editor great to really make Pulsar stand
  out from the crowd, not only for ex-Atom users but for everyone.

Commit message:

Basically the rest of the changes…
* Major LESS addition/overhaul
* Homepage concept
* Concept for download page — show only one platform at a time to make it less confusing (platform auto-picked by system switcher)
* Pull in Font Awesome in the header
* Rework some pages

docs/about.md, after:

---
title: About us
layout: page
---

## The team

The team behind Pulsar is a community that came about organically after the announcement of [Atom’s sunset](https://github.blog/2022-06-08-sunsetting-atom/). We decided that we needed to do something to keep our favorite editor alive.

Pulsar is a community-led project to modernize, update, and improve the original Atom project into a contemporary, hackable and fully open editor.

Pulsar is all of us! Feel free to contribute, discuss, answer questions and suggest ideas in any of our [community areas](/community).

## The goals <!--See: https://github.com/orgs/pulsar-edit/discussions/50-->

### Remain community-developed, -led, and -focused

The Pulsar community has the collective goal of building upon Atom’s sizable legacy. Decisions are made by those who participate and contribute; everyone helps decide how Pulsar evolves, not just a select few.

### Keep the things that make it unique

Atom’s design choices set it apart among editors. It is important to maintain those design choices as much as possible — especially since it helps us maintain compatibility with the thousands of community-contributed packages that already exist.

### Bring the editor’s core technologies up to date

Both Electron and Pulsar’s core modules need periodic updating to take advantage of new features in Node and Chromium.
