docs/repos.md, before:

---
title: Pulsar Repositories
path: /repos/
---

The Pulsar project is split up into a number of repositories, all hosted on
GitHub.

The very nature of the way Pulsar works means that there are a large number of
packages that come together to make up the editor and each of these have their
own repository.

We also have a number of other repositories to host the website, package backend
& frontend and our organization wide documentation & templates.

All of the Pulsar repositories can be found under the organization at
[https://github.com/pulsar-edit](https://github.com/pulsar-edit) but below is a
list of some of the more regularly used ones you may wish to visit in order to
contribute to the project.

## Editor

- [Pulsar](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar)
- [PPM](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/ppm)

## Websites and services

- [Homepage & Documentation](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar-edit.github.io)
- [Package Frontend](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/package-frontend)
- [Package Backend](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/package-backend)
- [GitHub Organization Files](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/.github)
- [Assets](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar-assets)

Commit message:

add repos.md file link

docs/repos.md, after:

---
title: Pulsar Repositories
path: /repos/
---

The Pulsar project is split up into a number of repositories, all hosted on
GitHub.

The very nature of the way Pulsar works means that there are a large number of
packages that come together to make up the editor and each of these have their
own repository.

We also have a number of other repositories to host the website, package backend
& frontend and our organization wide documentation & templates.

All of the Pulsar repositories can be found under the organization at
[https://github.com/pulsar-edit](https://github.com/pulsar-edit) but below is a
list of some of the more regularly used ones you may wish to visit in order to
contribute to the project. For a more comprehensive list you can visit the
org-level [REPOS file](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/.github/blob/main/REPOS.md).

## Editor

- [Pulsar](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar)
- [PPM](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/ppm)

## Websites and services

- [Homepage & Documentation](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar-edit.github.io)
- [Package Frontend](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/package-frontend)
- [Package Backend](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/package-backend)
- [GitHub Organization Files](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/.github)
- [Assets](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/pulsar-assets)
