docs/docs/packages/index.md, before:

---
lang: en-us
title: Packages
description: Documentation Resource for Packages
---

# Packages Documentation

This aims to be a collection of information about the packages published for the Pulsar Editor. Currently, anything in [Core Packages](#core-packages) is an archive of every Wiki that was published from the upstream Atom Organization.

This means some of this information may be old, or no longer relevant. If it is, it has been marked as so at the top of the file under a warning. None-the-less the information can still be helpful, and may prove to be valuable. Which is why it has been archived here.

As well, we have a record of [community packages](#community-packages) as well. This is meant to be a record of these. This section should be updated as we get more community contributions of these. The process for adding this will be added at a later date.

## Core Packages

### Updated

- TODO: Add Documentation from updated packages documentation.

### Archived Documentation

- [Atom-LanguageClient](/docs/packages/core/atom-languageclient/index.md)
- [Autocomplete-Plus](/docs/packages/core/autocomplete-plus/index.md)
- [GitHub](/docs/packages/core/github/index.md)
- [IDE-Java](/docs/packages/core/ide-java/index.md)

## Community Packages

- TODO: Add Documentation for Community packages, these can be straight grabs of the read-mes for these packages. With possibility of overrides

Commit message:

Updating our Documentation around community packages

docs/docs/packages/index.md, after:

---
lang: en-us
title: Packages
description: Documentation Resource for Packages
---

# Packages Documentation

This aims to be a collection of information about the packages published for the Pulsar Editor. Currently, anything in [Core Packages](#core-packages) is an archive of every Wiki that was published from the upstream Atom Organization.

This means some of this information may be old, or no longer relevant. If it is, it has been marked as so at the top of the file under a warning. None-the-less the information can still be helpful, and may prove to be valuable. Which is why it has been archived here.

As well, we have a record of [community packages](#community-packages) as well. This is meant to be a record of these. This section should be updated as we get more community contributions of these. The process for adding this will be added at a later date.

## Core Packages

### Updated

- TODO: Add Documentation from updated packages documentation.

### Archived Documentation

- [Atom-LanguageClient](/docs/packages/core/atom-languageclient/index.md)
- [Autocomplete-Plus](/docs/packages/core/autocomplete-plus/index.md)
- [GitHub](/docs/packages/core/github/index.md)
- [IDE-Java](/docs/packages/core/ide-java/index.md)

## Community Packages

There are currently thousands of community packages published to the Pulsar Package Registry, if you are coming from Atom you should be able to find all of your familiar packages as we have archived everything that Atom once had published.

If one of your favourite packages that you had on Atom is missing feel free to [contact us](https://pulsar-edit.dev/community.html) or take a look through the [Pulsar Package Registry Administrative Actions Log](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/package-backend/blob/main/docs/reference/Admin_Actions.md) to see if it's been officially removed.

Otherwise to browse the vast collection of packages available to install on Pulsar you can open up the Pulsar Settings Package page, or browse them on the [Pulsar Package Registry Website](https://web.pulsar-edit.dev/).
